 Hi everyone, it's Dr Tina  Intro So hari tu kita orang tanya korang. So saya akan pilih 5 random questions from Instagram and also thread.  Okay, so let's go with the first one. What is calorie deficit?  Calorie deficit ni happens when you consume fewer calories than your body burn.  Padang kita perlukan certain amount of calories to maintain its weight.  So if you eat less than that, your body will start using the stored energy, contohnya fat, which leads to weight loss.  Calorie deficit boleh terjadi bila you eating fewer calories, contohnya you portion control, kurang minum air bergula, minum air masak lebih, ataupun burning more calories. Maksudnya through physical activities lah, exercise like cycling ke, running ke, ataupun combination of both.  The key here is about safe, effective and sustainable approach. Maksudnya calorie deficit you tu 500 to 750 calories per day.  So but if you do too much too soon, you will get fatigue, cravings, muscle loss and we don't want that.  Okay, next one. I'm a medical officer just like you, still in service with the ministry.  I dream of becoming like you, having extra certs in various fields but how do I start? Where do I find extra info with regards to this matter?  Okay, first of all, don't be like me. Be so much better than me. I'm still a work in progress and I believe you can do so much better than me.  So but here is how I start. I start with something that I love. So first thing, you kena start dengan something that you love.  Something that brings you joy every time you do it. Something you passionate about. You must know what you love.  But if you don't know, now is the best time to explore.  Exploring is fun. You just cuba macam-macam. Don't worry about what people might say about you. You just cuba je.  Okay, until you find something that you're so passionate about and go from there.  So how do I get all this information is simply by googling and asking my friends, us around.  So I think from there, you boleh tahu, oh okay, so this ada cert for this and you ask people, oh yang ada cert tu, is it worth it?  You know, things like that and open yourself to any opportunities even if it doesn't involve money. Okay so the last one is how to start strength training with your five-year-old son. This is so  interesting. There are a few things that you need to focus on. Fun, skill development and movement.  Okay so how to do it? Make it a game. For example, animal movement like bear crawl, frog jump,  one more superhero workout like hawk smash. Kids will benefit from play-based activities, bodyweight exercises, and learning coordination.  Okay, so the next one is use bodyweight.  For example, like playing, right?  You make a game like who can hold the longest.  And another one is squat.  So like squat is pretending that you sit on an invisible chair.  Remember to keep it short and fun.  10 to 15 minutes is enough.  Last but not least, make it a challenge, not a chore.  If the kids feel like it's work out or chore, they don't want to play.  So we want them to play.  We want to let them play around without thinking that it's a workout.  So I hope this helps.  Okay, the next one is can you go for a run when you had a low-grade fever?  The short answer is no. Here's why.  Okay, fever is a temporary increase in body temperature  that's usually caused by an infection.  When you run or exercise, your body temperature will increase  which makes your fever  even worse.  You are at risk of dehydration and your immune system will strain  because it's fighting an illness.  So if you put like added physical stress on it,  so it will strain your immune system even more.  When you have a fever, your muscle strength, your endurance drop.  So this will decrease the precision and coordination.  So all of this will increase the risk of injury even more.  So if you have a fever, I know how it feels like.  You feel like you're burning, right?  You don't go running.  But it's okay.  Rest well.  Seek medical help if you need to.  And once you get the mum, you're well, just go for a run.  Okay, so the next one is top three supplements doctors will take.  Okay, so before we dive into that, I've considered a few things.  I've done medical check-up, considering my lifestyle schedule. and also my diet, so these are the top 3 supplements that I take every single day.  The first one, of course, is protein.  This one is from Optimum, my favourite is Hydroway.  It's really good.  This one is chocolate.  Their vanilla is also good.  Sometimes I mix it with yogurt, for snack, or with cereal.  It's really good.  And the next one is micronized creatine powder.  I just started taking it and I see the difference.  Even for endurance sports, you can actually feel the difference.  So I take this every single day.  And last but not least is the fish oil.  I don't get enough of this in my diet, so yeah, that's why I take it.  So these are my 3 top supplements that I take.  I usually don't take a lot, just these 3.  Yeah, I take them every single day.  It helps in my training, especially since I do swim, bike, and run.  So I need myself to be properly filled, properly supported.  So yeah, these are the top 3 supplements that I take.