 hey and welcome to the short stuff i'm josh and there's chuck and chuck i have a question for you  yes don't you want to fanta is that a slogan  oh don't you wanna yeah yeah i remember that now it's very catchy  don't you fanna don't you wanna was that it don't you want to fanta  that's how i remember  yeah oh okay uh i love fanna i mean wait wait you never answered my question well yeah of course  i do if i love it okay um i think i've mentioned plenty of times that i did not grow up drinking  much soda because as a family we didn't have the kind of money to just load up the house with sodas  so sodas were only reserved for my mom to drink chab oh yeah she was a tab drinker huh yeah we had money for that uh but i didn't drink much soda  growing up so i don't drink soda now uh thankfully because that stuff is so bad for you uh generally  speaking but i i will um hammer down six cokes a year and maybe four or five fana oranges all at  once once a year i love them i love that fana orange i just you know you can't drink that  stuff a lot have you had any of the other fantas the grape and etc I think I like dabbled in the grape and knee-high grape and stuff when I was a kid but it's really that and I like Sunkist preferred Sunkist as a kid here and there Sunkist soda right yeah yeah but Fanta orange is one of my rare rare guilty pleasures I gotcha I was more of a Faygo man as a kid I never drank those and I also never have drank any of the clear or yellows like I've never tasted Mountain Dew didn't drink mellow yellow or Sprite or 7up or anything like that you missed out you've never tasted Mountain Dew or mellow yellow I just want to make sure I have that correct I don't think so wow I can't remember ever doing it I mean I don't even know what it tastes like it looks lemon limey but no no it's not it's its own thing for sure I don't know that you should ever break the streak now that you've reached this long without trying it but it's not lemon lime it's its own thing but what we're talking about is whether or not Fanta is a Nazi drink and we're going to go into the history of that and we're going to start out talking a little bit about Coca-Cola the parent company as every most people know by now it was invented by Dr. John Stith Pemberton in 1886 he was a morphine addicted Civil War veteran looking for a better way to feel better than morphine and put together some cocoa leaves and cola nuts which had you know were stimulants because of cocaine and caffeine and said hey this is like a new kind of medicine and after he died it went on to be a very very popular drink it sure did one of the things that Coca-Cola did over time was they expanded around the world they became an ambassador of American democracy one of the places they expanded to is Germany pre-war Germany or maybe interwar Germany I'm not sure when they showed up but regardless by the time World War II was starting to ramp up say the 30s the late 30s Coca-Cola was heavily entrenched in Germany and its subsidiary was Coca-Cola GmbH which stands for Gelschaft mit Beschreiterhaftung which translates to company with limited liability and there was a guy named Max Kite who ran the show there and boy oh boy was he dedicated to Coca-Cola and furthering the cause of Coca-Cola in Germany yes for sure he there's a guy named Mark Pendergrast who wrote a book called For God Country and Coca-Cola no colon yeah way to go Mark yeah that's incredible and he said that you know this guy loved coke so much he really just wanted to weave it into every aspect of German life including the the Nazi Party even though supposedly he never was officially joined the Nazi Party and you think like well coke probably wasn't super stoked about this they didn't care Robert Woodruff was running coke at the time and he was like hey this is all good we're going to co-sponsor the 1936 Berlin Olympics we're going to hang up some banners there with our logo right next to the swastika and it's all it's all good everybody yeah can you imagine I looked high and low for a photograph of that and I could not find it I'm sure Coca-Cola has dedicated a significant amount of its operational funding to destroying any evidence of that banner ever I haven't been to the world of Coke Museum but I bet right here in Atlanta I bet it's not in there I'll bet they don't have it up to there was also for the 10th anniversary of Coca-Cola GMBH they decided to commemorate their deepest admiration for the Fuhrer for Hitler's 50th birthday with a mass Nazi salute I guess of employees who worked there at the time yeah exactly so Coca-Cola was very much entrenched in Nazi Germany even before the war especially before the war I should say well yeah because once the war started uh we were like oh well I guess we can't do business with Germany anymore right and Germany was seizing enemy-owned businesses at will I think General Motors actually got out of Germany but they did seize IBM and Coca-Cola said sorry kite we got to stop sending you our 7x flavoring and he said but that is the secret and they went I know and I'm really sorry but even though we're friends our countries aren't friends right now and that was a huge hit on Coca-Cola LLC gmbh Germany he couldn't make coke so he was like I got to come up with a new plan yeah and also at the same time he's walking this this fine line between not having access to the product that his company makes and trying to keep the German government from officially seizing and taking over his company and to do that he needs he needs a hit he needs the most delicious most nutritious thing you could possibly put together that's going to sweep Germany  right off right off the bat and I feel like we should talk about  this product that Max Keit introduced after a break  you Okay, Chuck. So Max Kite's like, what am I going to do? I need to come up with something fast to  keep my company afloat. I think I'll just create an entirely new drink that no one's ever even  thought of making before. And because there's so many wartime rations going on, I'm going to have  to get really creative here, but I'm going to do it. Yeah. I mean, not only did he, was he not  getting that, that sweet, sweet 7X Coke syrup. He didn't have sugar, or at least much.  They were rationing sugar at the time.  So he said, all right.  He ended up saying the recipe was made from the leftovers of the leftovers.  The first Fanta, which, by the way, is the German word for fantasy or imagination.  And supposedly he said, hey, marketing team, use your fantasy to think of a good name.  And they said, how about Fanta?  And he went, that's great.  How about Love Gun?  I think it was a guy named Joe Nip. Who officially thought of the name, but he got apple pulp from leftover apple cider making beet sugar and whey and by all accounts, it was not orange at all. And it tasted like sweet garbage.  It's yeah, it took me a couple of reads to be like, well, wait a minute. How does that taste like Fanta? And then I realized with just sudden horror, it didn't taste anything like Fanta.  And apparently it didn't taste very well at all.  Historians, no one knows what it tasted like, or at least no one's been able to find somebody who actually drank this stuff.  But they're like, just look at the ingredients. There's no way it tasted good.  And they think that it was probably mostly sold to be used as like a flavor agent for soups and stews and stuff like that. That people weren't just knocking back bottles of this stuff because they would have vomited until they died, I guess.  Instead, they were just using it in other ways.  But that's not to say it wasn't a huge hit.  It was a big seller.  And not only that, it instilled like a kind of national pride among Germans.  Like, look at how resourceful we are in the face of, you know, wartime scarcity.  But have you tried this stuff?  Yeah, it was their own.  They're like, we have Fanta and beer. And like, we're going to claim those and love those and drink those until we fall over.  So he did, even though, like I said, he officially supposedly never joined the Nazi party, he did work very closely with the Nazi party because he needed their help.  He needed their help making sure that production continued.  And, you know, the cooperation with the Nazis was a key part of that.  But that. Was able to keep the doors open, at least officially Coca-Cola in April of 1955 postwar said, why don't we rejigger Fanta and make it taste good? And we've got the name. We have it copyrighted and it's already sort of got a little bit of a cred, at least in Europe. So let's just keep the name and hopefully no one will remember the Nazi ties.  Yeah. But also, so this name. Just the name, right? They could have come up with anything else, but just the name is has Nazi ties.  Like you said, it was created in and for Nazi Germany, and it was also made from apple pulp and beet sugar and whey. Why would you use that? I would think you would want to do the exact opposite and bury that name like it was a banner with the Coke logo and a swastika.  But instead, they just went with it and they introduced it in Italy first as this, the version we know now, this orange soda version in Italy was like, yeah, it's pretty good.  Let's go with that. And they started to export it, finally made it into the United States in 1958, which was, I think, three years after they reintroduced it in Italy. Yeah, I think what the deal was, is it wasn't widely known outside of Germany. So it's not like the word Fanta had some negative connotation all over the world. And the Germans loved it. So it actually had a positive connotation in at least one market. So, yeah, I get it. I mean, maybe it would have been a good PR move to change it because it's a Nazi thing, but I don't think it was like some otherwise tainted name.  I see. I see what you mean. And they were like, I'm sure people will just forget about it anyway within a year or two. Anybody who even knows about it, it'll never come out.  Yeah. Until, you know, people started calling it a Nazi drink and, you know, on the Internet.  Right.  And the idea kind of spread. And it was, you know, it was Fanta and not Fanta.  But, yeah, people largely didn't think much about it. And I still don't think much about it. I mean, it's not like if you buy a Fanta. Or something today, you're supporting Nazis, right?  It goes to the upkeep of Hitler's tomb or something like that.  A small donation.  But the author Pendergrast was like, it's this is pretty.  It is still pretty significant that people like this drink enough  that even knowing it's its roots or where it came from, you're just like,  it's just it's an orange soda.  I like it for what it is.  And it's not just orange.  As we said, they have a whole line of flavors, including grape.  Not Inappropriate or anything like that.  There's a reason why it will go up.  That's the reason.  You can't get that stuff starting with.  And then you'll have a one off.  That's the good thing about like Fanta is that it's not a bad idea.  There's a lot more.  You can buy it at the aproxim.  I mean, it's not a bad thing.  It's not.  It's not that it's not very good.  It's not.  It's not a good idea.  We're going to look at the power balance when we're talking about alcohol.  I'm going to show you.  So if you're not like Inappropriate or anything like that.  I'm going to talk about alcohol.  I mean, it's not that Inappropriate or anything like that.  That's the origin of alcohol. And I think it's much more popular in South America right now, but it's still pretty big in America, in the United States.  Man, we keep getting taken to task for that, for calling the U.S. America.  Sorry, everybody.  That's what they tell us.  That's what they teach us here.  Yeah.  And hey, pretty soon, a lot of parts of the world are going to be called America.  So get used to it, everyone. As far as Kite goes, he stuck around and the Coca-Cola company said, you know what, even though your drink was garbage, you did the yeoman's work way back then and kept that brand alive.  And so he was made eventually the head of Coca-Cola Europe and, you know, seems like had a pretty good career as a soda guy.  Oh, one other thing about that, too, is Kite, as the Nazis rolled into country after country. Kite was right behind the tanks going, your division of Coca-Cola is now part of Coca-Cola Deutschland.  Your division of Coca-Cola is now part of Coca-Cola Deutschland.  And so when he was made the head of Coca-Cola Europe, he had consolidated through conquering other businesses.  He had consolidated all into one company because of the Nazis conquering these countries.  Isn't that nuts?  Yeah.  I mean, who better to lead the... Coca-Cola Europe, you know, I guess he was already in place.  Yeah. He kept pounding his fist in his hand whenever he talked at like board meetings and  investors meetings. That's right.  Okay. Well, that's it for Fanta. Do you want to Fanta? I don't know. That's only a question  you can answer yourself. And while you think about that, we're done with this. So short stuff is out.  Stuff You Should Know is a production of iHeartRadio. For more podcasts from iHeartRadio, visit the iHeartRadio app, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you listen to your favorite shows.